README.md, before:

###### Copyright (C) 2021-2022, Xilinx, Inc.  All rights reserved.
###### Copyright (C) 2022-2023, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.  All rights reserved.

###### SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

# gen-machine-conf

This repo provides support to generate machine conf and plnxtool.conf 
files for the given HW file.

## Maintainers, Patches/Submissions, Community

Please open pull requests for any changes.

For more details follow the OE community patch submission guidelines, as described in:

https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/Commit_Patch_Message_Guidelines
https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/How_to_submit_a_patch_to_OpenEmbedded

> **Note:** When creating patches, please use below format. To follow best practice,
> if you have more than one patch use `--cover-letter` option while generating the
> patches. Edit the 0000-cover-letter.patch and change the title and top of the
> body as appropriate.

**Syntax:**
`git format-patch -s --subject-prefix="gen-machine-conf][<BRANCH_NAME>][PATCH" -1`

**Example:**
`git format-patch -s --subject-prefix="gen-machine-conf][xlnx_rel_v2023.1][PATCH" -1`

**Maintainers:**

	Mark Hatle <mark.hatle@amd.com>
	Sandeep Gundlupet Raju <sandeep.gundlupet-raju@amd.com>
	John Toomey <john.toomey@amd.com>
	Varalaxmi Bingi <varalaxmi.bingi@amd.com>
	Raju Kumar Pothuraju <rajukumar.pothuraju@amd.com>
	Swagath Gadde <swagath.gadde@amd.com>
	Ashwini Lomate <ashwini.lomate@amd.com>


## Dependencies

This repo depends on:

	URI: https://git.yoctoproject.org/poky
	layers: meta, meta-poky
	branch: langdale

	URI: https://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded
	layers: meta-oe, meta-perl, meta-python, meta-filesystems, meta-gnome,
            meta-multimedia, meta-networking, meta-webserver, meta-xfce,
            meta-initramfs.
	branch: langdale

	URI:
        https://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-xilinx (official version)
        https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-xilinx (development and amd xilinx release)
	layers: meta-xilinx-core, meta-xilinx-microblaze, meta-xilinx-bsp,
            meta-xilinx-standalone, meta-xilinx-vendor.
	branch: langdale or amd xilinx release version (e.g. rel-v2023.1)

	URI:
        https://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-xilinx-tools (official version)
        https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-xilinx-tools (development and amd xilinx release)
	branch: langdale or amd xilinx release version (e.g. rel-v2023.1)

	URI: https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-petalinux
	branch: langdale or amd xilinx release version (e.g. rel-v2023.1)

## PetaLinux/Yocto XSA to Machine conf file generation using gen-machineconf tool

This repo supports PetaLinux/Yocto XSA to Machine conf file generation using
gen-machineconf tool. Below is the gen-machineconf tool usage and examples.

* gen-machineconf usage:

```bash
$ gen-machineconf --help
[INFO] Getting bitbake BBPATH
usage: gen-machineconf [--hw-description [<PATH_TO_XSA>/<xsa_name>.xsa] or <PATH_TO_SDTDIR>] [--soc-family] [--soc-variant] [--machine-name] [-c <config_dir>] [-r] [-O] [--output] [--native-sysroot]
                       [--menuconfig [{project,rootfs}]] [--petalinux] [--add-rootfsconfig] [-D] [-h]
                       <subcommand> ...

PetaLinux/Yocto Machine Configuration File generation tool

required arguments:
  --hw-description [<PATH_TO_XSA>/<xsa_name>.xsa] or <PATH_TO_SDTDIR>
                        Specify Hardware(xsa) file or System Device-tree Directory

options:
  --soc-family          SOC family type from choice list (usually auto detected).
  --soc-variant         SOC Variant: Ex: cg, dr, eg, ev, ai-prime, premium (usually auto detected).
  --machine-name        Provide a name to generate machine configuration
  -c <config_dir>, --config-dir <config_dir>
                        Location of the build conf directory
  -r , --require-machine
                        This machine will be required, instead of the generic machine if defined
  -O , --machine-overrides
                        Provide additional overrides to the generated machine
  --output              Output directory name
  --native-sysroot      Native sysroot path to use the mconf/conf or lopper commands.
  --menuconfig [{project,rootfs}]
                        UI menuconfig option to update configuration(default is project).
                        project - To update System Level configurations
                        rootfs  - To update Rootfs configurations
  --petalinux           Generate Rootfs and PetaLinux Tool conf files and update the build/local.conf file with generated .conf files.
  --add-rootfsconfig    Specify a file with list of package names to add into rootfs menu entry
  -D, --debug           Enable debug output
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

subcommands:
  <subcommand>
    parse-xsa           Parse xsa file and generate Yocto/PetaLinux configurations.
    parse-sdt           Parse System devicet-tree file and generate Yocto/PetaLinux configurations.

Use gen-machineconf <subcommand> --help to get help on a specific command
$
```

* gen-machineconf parse-xsa usage:

```bash
$ gen-machineconf parse-xsa --help
usage: gen-machineconf parse-xsa [--hw-description <PATH_TO_XSA>/<xsa_name>.xsa] [other options]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --xsct-tool [XSCT_TOOL_PATH]
                        Vivado or Vitis XSCT path to use xsct commands
$

```

* gen-machineconf parse-sdt usage:

```bash
$ gen-machineconf parse-sdt --help
usage: gen-machineconf parse-sdt [--hw-description <PATH_TO_SDTDIR>] [other options]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -g {full,dfx-static,dfx-partial}, --gen-pl-overlay {full,dfx-static,dfx-partial}
                        Generate pl overlay for full, dfx-static and dfx-partial configuration using xlnx_overlay_dt lopper script
  -d <domain_file>, --domain-file <domain_file>
                        Path to domain file (.yaml/.dts)
  -p <psu_init_path>, --psu-init-path <psu_init_path>
                        Path to psu_init files, defaults to system_dts path
  -i <pdi path>, --fpga <pdi path>
                        Path to pdi file
  -l <config_file>, --localconf <config_file>
                        Write local.conf changes to this file
  --dts-path <dts_path>
                        Absolute path or subdirectory of conf/dts to place DTS files in (usually auto detected from DTS)
$
```

> **NOTE:** You can find the default BSP machine conf file names at `<gen-machine-conf>/gen-machine-scripts/data/machineconf.json`

* MicroBlaze:

```bash
# Custom xsa method
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family microblaze --hw-description /<PATH_TO_CUSTOM_XSA>/kc705-microblazeel/system.xsa --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct

# BSP method:
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family microblaze --hw-description /<PATH_TO_HDF_ARTIFACTORY>/kc705-microblazeel/system.xsa --machine-name kc705-microblazeel --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct
```

* Zynq-7000:

```bash
# Custom xsa method
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family zynq --hw-description /<PATH_TO_CUSTOM_XSA>/zc702-zynq7/system.xsa --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct

# BSP method:
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family zynq --hw-description /<PATH_TO_HDF_ARTIFACTORY>/zc702-zynq7/system.xsa --machine-name zc702-zynq7 --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct
```

* ZynqMP:

```bash
# Custom xsa method
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family zynqmp --hw-description /<PATH_TO_CUSTOM_XSA>/zcu106-zynqmp/system.xsa --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct

# BSP method:
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family zynqmp --hw-description /<PATH_TO_HDF_ARTIFACTORY>/zcu106-zynqmp/system.xsa --machine-name zcu106-zynqmp --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct
```

* Versal:

```bash
# Custom xsa method
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family versal --hw-description /<PATH_TO_CUSTOM_XSA>/vck190-versal/system.xsa --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct

# BSP method:
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family versal --hw-description /<PATH_TO_HDF_ARTIFACTORY>/vck190-versal/system.xsa --machine-name vck190-versal --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct
```

Commit message:

gen-machineconf: Add CLI option(--add-config) to update system configuration
Add command line option to update system level configuration.
User can provide file path containing config macros or direct config
macro to apply on top of default configs.

--add-config 'CONFIG_SUBSYSTEM_UBOOT_CONFIG_TARGET="mydefconfig"'
--add-config '#CONFIG_YOCTO_BBMC_CORTEXA53_0_ZYNQMP_FSBL_BAREMETAL is not set'
--add-config 'CONFIG_YOCTO_BBMC_CORTEXR5_1_ZYNQMP_FREERTOS=y'
--add-config <config_file>

Add command line option --multiconfigfull to generate and enable the
full set of multiconfig targets.

Signed-off-by: Raju Kumar Pothuraju <rajukumar.pothuraju@amd.com>
Acked-by: Varalaxmi Bingi <Varalaxmi.bingi@amd.com>

README.md, after:

###### Copyright (C) 2021-2022, Xilinx, Inc.  All rights reserved.
###### Copyright (C) 2022-2023, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.  All rights reserved.

###### SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

# gen-machine-conf

This repo provides support to generate machine conf and plnxtool.conf 
files for the given HW file.

## Maintainers, Patches/Submissions, Community

Please open pull requests for any changes.

For more details follow the OE community patch submission guidelines, as described in:

https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/Commit_Patch_Message_Guidelines
https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/How_to_submit_a_patch_to_OpenEmbedded

> **Note:** When creating patches, please use below format. To follow best practice,
> if you have more than one patch use `--cover-letter` option while generating the
> patches. Edit the 0000-cover-letter.patch and change the title and top of the
> body as appropriate.

**Syntax:**
`git format-patch -s --subject-prefix="gen-machine-conf][<BRANCH_NAME>][PATCH" -1`

**Example:**
`git format-patch -s --subject-prefix="gen-machine-conf][xlnx_rel_v2023.1][PATCH" -1`

**Maintainers:**

	Mark Hatle <mark.hatle@amd.com>
	Sandeep Gundlupet Raju <sandeep.gundlupet-raju@amd.com>
	John Toomey <john.toomey@amd.com>
	Varalaxmi Bingi <varalaxmi.bingi@amd.com>
	Raju Kumar Pothuraju <rajukumar.pothuraju@amd.com>
	Swagath Gadde <swagath.gadde@amd.com>
	Ashwini Lomate <ashwini.lomate@amd.com>


## Dependencies

This repo depends on:

	URI: https://git.yoctoproject.org/poky
	layers: meta, meta-poky
	branch: langdale

	URI: https://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded
	layers: meta-oe, meta-perl, meta-python, meta-filesystems, meta-gnome,
            meta-multimedia, meta-networking, meta-webserver, meta-xfce,
            meta-initramfs.
	branch: langdale

	URI:
        https://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-xilinx (official version)
        https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-xilinx (development and amd xilinx release)
	layers: meta-xilinx-core, meta-xilinx-microblaze, meta-xilinx-bsp,
            meta-xilinx-standalone, meta-xilinx-vendor.
	branch: langdale or amd xilinx release version (e.g. rel-v2023.1)

	URI:
        https://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-xilinx-tools (official version)
        https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-xilinx-tools (development and amd xilinx release)
	branch: langdale or amd xilinx release version (e.g. rel-v2023.1)

	URI: https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-petalinux
	branch: langdale or amd xilinx release version (e.g. rel-v2023.1)

## PetaLinux/Yocto XSA to Machine conf file generation using gen-machineconf tool

This repo supports PetaLinux/Yocto XSA to Machine conf file generation using
gen-machineconf tool. Below is the gen-machineconf tool usage and examples.

* gen-machineconf usage:

```bash
$ gen-machineconf --help
[INFO] Getting bitbake BBPATH
usage: gen-machineconf [--hw-description [<PATH_TO_XSA>/<xsa_name>.xsa] or <PATH_TO_SDTDIR>] [--soc-family] [--soc-variant] [--machine-name] [-c <config_dir>] [-r] [-O] [--output] [--native-sysroot]
                       [--menuconfig [{project,rootfs}]] [--petalinux] [--add-rootfsconfig] [-D] [-h]
                       <subcommand> ...

PetaLinux/Yocto Machine Configuration File generation tool

required arguments:
  --hw-description [<PATH_TO_XSA>/<xsa_name>.xsa] or <PATH_TO_SDTDIR>
                        Specify Hardware(xsa) file or System Device-tree Directory

options:
  --soc-family          SOC family type from choice list (usually auto detected).
  --soc-variant         SOC Variant: Ex: cg, dr, eg, ev, ai-prime, premium (usually auto detected).
  --machine-name        Provide a name to generate machine configuration
  -c <config_dir>, --config-dir <config_dir>
                        Location of the build conf directory
  -r , --require-machine
                        This machine will be required, instead of the generic machine if defined
  -O , --machine-overrides
                        Provide additional overrides to the generated machine
  --output              Output directory name
  --native-sysroot      Native sysroot path to use the mconf/conf or lopper commands.
  --menuconfig [{project,rootfs}]
                        UI menuconfig option to update configuration(default is project).
                        project - To update System Level configurations
                        rootfs  - To update Rootfs configurations
  --petalinux           Generate Rootfs and PetaLinux Tool conf files and update the build/local.conf file with generated .conf files.
  --add-config [CONFIG_<macro>=y]
                        Specify config macro or file containing config macros to be added on top of default configs
  --add-rootfsconfig    Specify a file with list of package names to add into rootfs menu entry
  -D, --debug           Enable debug output
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

subcommands:
  <subcommand>
    parse-xsa           Parse xsa file and generate Yocto/PetaLinux configurations.
    parse-sdt           Parse System devicet-tree file and generate Yocto/PetaLinux configurations.

Use gen-machineconf <subcommand> --help to get help on a specific command
$
```

* gen-machineconf parse-xsa usage:

```bash
$ gen-machineconf parse-xsa --help
usage: gen-machineconf parse-xsa [--hw-description <PATH_TO_XSA>/<xsa_name>.xsa] [other options]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --xsct-tool [XSCT_TOOL_PATH]
                        Vivado or Vitis XSCT path to use xsct commands
$

```

* gen-machineconf parse-sdt usage:

```bash
$ gen-machineconf parse-sdt --help
usage: gen-machineconf parse-sdt [--hw-description <PATH_TO_SDTDIR>] [other options]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -g {full,dfx-static,dfx-partial}, --gen-pl-overlay {full,dfx-static,dfx-partial}
                        Generate pl overlay for full, dfx-static and dfx-partial configuration using xlnx_overlay_dt lopper script
  -d <domain_file>, --domain-file <domain_file>
                        Path to domain file (.yaml/.dts)
  -p <psu_init_path>, --psu-init-path <psu_init_path>
                        Path to psu_init files, defaults to system_dts path
  -i <pdi path>, --fpga <pdi path>
                        Path to pdi file
  -l <config_file>, --localconf <config_file>
                        Write local.conf changes to this file
  --multiconfigfull     Generate/Enable Full set of multiconfig .conf and .dts files. Default is minimal)
  --dts-path <dts_path>
                        Absolute path or subdirectory of conf/dts to place DTS files in (usually auto detected from DTS)
$
```

> **NOTE:** You can find the default BSP machine conf file names at `<gen-machine-conf>/gen-machine-scripts/data/machineconf.json`

* MicroBlaze:

```bash
# Custom xsa method
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family microblaze --hw-description /<PATH_TO_CUSTOM_XSA>/kc705-microblazeel/system.xsa --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct

# BSP method:
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family microblaze --hw-description /<PATH_TO_HDF_ARTIFACTORY>/kc705-microblazeel/system.xsa --machine-name kc705-microblazeel --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct
```

* Zynq-7000:

```bash
# Custom xsa method
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family zynq --hw-description /<PATH_TO_CUSTOM_XSA>/zc702-zynq7/system.xsa --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct

# BSP method:
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family zynq --hw-description /<PATH_TO_HDF_ARTIFACTORY>/zc702-zynq7/system.xsa --machine-name zc702-zynq7 --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct
```

* ZynqMP:

```bash
# Custom xsa method
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family zynqmp --hw-description /<PATH_TO_CUSTOM_XSA>/zcu106-zynqmp/system.xsa --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct

# BSP method:
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family zynqmp --hw-description /<PATH_TO_HDF_ARTIFACTORY>/zcu106-zynqmp/system.xsa --machine-name zcu106-zynqmp --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct
```

* Versal:

```bash
# Custom xsa method
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family versal --hw-description /<PATH_TO_CUSTOM_XSA>/vck190-versal/system.xsa --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct

# BSP method:
$ gen-machineconf --soc-family versal --hw-description /<PATH_TO_HDF_ARTIFACTORY>/vck190-versal/system.xsa --machine-name vck190-versal --xsct-tool /<PETALINUX_INSTALLATION_DIR>/tools/xsct
```
